---
layout: post
title: We're live!
---
I’ve bloody done it - I’ve cancelled my subscription to Squarespace.

Last year I bumped into [Rob Dyke](https://robdyke.com/) on the train home and, after a brief conversation, he challenged me to roll my own website using Github Pages. So here we are - thanks Rob.

I'm far from a professional developer, but love a challenge and believe that it's part of my job as a designer to understand (at least, in part) how tools like Github work. It's safe to say that I'm now a lot more familiar with the basic deployment process.

My new site is (mostly) live: 
* A new blog
* [My design portfolio](../pages/portfolio)
* [Examples of writing](../pages/ux-writing)

There's still a [few things left to do](2019-12-27-setting-up-jekyll), but I'm super proud of the result.

### How I Built This Site
The process of setting up this site has been (mostly) painless. 

Setting up Jekyll on Github Pages is a doddle, much quicker and easier than I remember. I followed the official guide and had a site up and running in less than 15 minutes. 

Using the follow criteria, I set about looking for a custom theme: 

* Clean & easily accessible styling
* No-nonsense configuration with room for customisation
* Responsiveness built in (Surely this is as-standard, by now?)

Emerald ticked all the boxes. 

> I faced my first hurdle - I can't seem to host Jekyll locally, despite many attempts to troubleshoot. Thankfully, I work with a bunch of talented developers and will be enlisting their help to troubleshoot! In the meantime, I've been making very regular commits. 

I cloned the repo and set to work customising the theme:

* Colour styles & typography; I've chosen to change the basic theme from green to blue (#0AF), a versatile colour that I love. I'm keeping the base font (for now, at least), but may look to switch to a serif/sans serif pairing later on. 
* Nav menu; I stole an idea for this from [Sally Lait](https://sallylait.com/)'s beautiful website, adding help text beneath each link to give the user an idea of where they were headed

Once the basic site was up-and-running and I was happy with the design, I began migrating portfolio content from my old Squarespace site. I created a number of pages for the companies and projects that I've worked on. I settled upon a simple format; outlining my role(s), the objectives of each project and the impact my work had.

Once (most of) the content was in place, I began to link between pages. Jekyll, or at least the Emerald theme, automatically adds pages to the menu - which lead to a long list, with no hierarchy. Thankfully there's a simple way to override the menu links. 

I ran into what I think is a bug in the theme - when the BaseURL is set to `/` (the default), the `home` link in the menu and header don't take you back to the home page. Looking in the inspector, I could see that the `href` parameter wasn't being added to the link, so I have hard-coded these for now.

### Next Steps
We'll see how 2020 goes, but my ambitions for this site are as follows: 

* Introduce search; I believe that search is the future of UI (actually, the present), so hope to introduce some basic search functionality to the site
* Write more; I've fallen out of the loop and want to publish more written content, defeating that little critical voice
* Add analytics; I'm looking for a non-Google alternative to GA, for basic pageview metrics
* Create other GHP sites for the band(s) that I'm in

There's still some content twiddling to do, but I'm about 90% of the way there. Thanks Rob, for poking me in the right direction. 